What is the primary difference between ACID and BASE databases?

 The view that multiple simultaneous readers have on the data

 The performance of re-indexing operations

 The ability to store schemaless data in JSON

 The ability to replicate data to increase read performance

What concept in relational database design is ignored in BASE database systems?

 Name tables using plural names and objects with singular names

 Never store JSON data uncompressed

 Use B-tree indexes below a certain number of rows

 Don't allow vertical replication of string data

Why is the term "NoSQL" used less and less recently?

 Oracle trademarked NoSQL(tm) and no one wanted to pay a license fee

 Because brands like Mongo and Cassandra became well-known

 Because NoSQL has "won" and SQL is no longer in common use

 Many BASE-style databases are providing SQL interfaces

Of the "letters" in the BASE abbreviation, which captures the notion best?

 Big Data

 Soft limits

 Eventual Consistency

 Atomicity

Which of the following techniques has a negative performance impact (and is usually not possible) in a BASE-style database?

 SERIAL primary keys

 GUID primary keys

 Schema-on-read

 Extending the schema on the fly

Which of the following techniques used to scale ACID style databases that is in a sense BASE-like?

 Read replicas

 SSD

 Vertical scaling

 Multi-Master

 Each tenant has its own database instance

Which of these database architectures came first?

 ACID

 BASE

Why are the database requirements for Facebook so much more complex than GMail?

 Facebook needed to handle with lots of photos

 Facebook stored far more data than GMail

 Facebook must handle friends and privacy

 Facebook needed to distribute data across many data centers around the world

What kind of computers would you see in a Google data center?

 Large refrigerator-sized computers with 100's of CPUs and large shared memory

 Rows and rows of rack-mounted specialized hardware

 Simple commodity computers without any extra packaging

 Multi-processor systems connected to large RAID-arrays of disk

How many computers are involved in producing a Google search result?

 1

 5000

 200

 10

What is the first step in a Google search to get to the point where you see the top pages on the Internet that march your search?

 Inverted index of keywords

 Quality measure of the website content

 The supplemental index

 Page rank

How did/does Amazon Web services push application architects to build distributed applications?

 Small memory systems are the most cost effective

 Disk space was more expensive than main memory

 Software as a service (like Redshift) were far less expensive than building your own database servers

 Temporary disk space was cheaper than permanent space

Which of the following does not belong for a BASE-style database system:

 A service can be scaled horizontally by addingmore servers

 It is easy to have an unique integer key that increments for each row and is provided by the database

 Data is distributed on many servers and requests can go to any server

 Data is often sharded

What database was used to develop Amazon' RedShift service?

 MongoDB

 Cassandra

 PostgreSQL

 MySQL

 Oracle

How have traditional ACID database vendors like PostgreSQL reacted to the rise in popularity of new NoSQL / BASE database systems?

 By adding optional NoSQL / BASE features like JSON fields and read replicas

 By evolving the SQL language to be SQL++

 By removing support for transactions and SERIAL fields to improve performance

 By pointing that BASE databases are eventually consistent